Our final project in the course and I want us to have a little bit of fun.
This one is gonna be nice and quick but also a ton of fun that hopefully gets you excited about the
power of machine learning.
Now my personal opinion is that most of the machine learning moving forward is not about creating our
own models or doing really complex math and statistics but instead it's in the ability of us to use
pre-existing models to solve business problems to solve human problems.
And I want to demonstrate this by using a great library called Image A.I. and as you can see here let's
make this a little bit bigger.
It's a python library built to empower a developer to build applications and systems with self-contained
computer vision capabilities that is instead of us having to build a computer vision model all from
scratch we can use pre existing tools to use something like this library to solve a problem or maybe
create an entire business around a model that is freely accessible to us.
And I'm going to show you this awesome library that's going to do some really neat things.
So I'm going to link to this resource.
But what we're going to do is we're going to create an image recognition app where we feed it some photos
and it's going to be able to tell us exactly what that image has that's pretty cool right.
Let's get started so if we read through the documentation it actually has a pretty good overview of
what we can do.
Now as you can see here we have to install a few things for us.
So let's just copy this and I'll go over what some of these do.
So where you're going to copy and paste make sure that you're using Pip version 3 based on your installation.
We're using tensor flow and carry us and open CV which is an image processing library and tensor flow
and tariffs are very popular.
Machine learning libraries.
Now we're going to install this.
And as this is being installed it's quite a bit to install so just a heads up that these libraries tend
to be heavier.
And then we also want to install the image api library.
So let's copy this and let's see if this is done nope it's still gone.
Give it a bit of time let's clear this and run the image A.I. OK.
All right.
So hopefully we have these libraries installed and what we can do is well just simple image prediction.
So I've created a folder here really smart brain that has an empty python file and three images that
I'll attach to this lesson.
We have a giraffe image a Godzilla image and a house image.
So let's see how we can use the image A.I. library what we can do is say from Image A.I. we're going
to use the prediction module and we're going to import the image prediction part of it.
Now we also want to grab these files so I'll just do a simple import of the OS library so that I can
say execution path will equal the OS dot get current working directory that is wherever I'm running
this from get to whatever directory where we're in.
So that's just saying President working directory I'll grab this directory for us so that's the execution
path and we can instantiate the prediction image prediction that we just imported by saying image and
this should be capital I make this a little bit bigger so I'm going to say image prediction to instantiate
it and in here we can do some different things.
If we go back to the library we're using the image prediction option here.
Keep in mind that this library actually can do different things like object detection which is really
really cool or video object detection.
But for now we're interested in the image prediction.
So if we go to tutorial and guide
you'll see exactly here what we can do to do the predictions.
So let's just copy this for now and go over what it does.
Line by line.
We have our prediction variable and we set the model type that is we decide what model we want to use.
Now this library has a few models that we can use.
And these are really popular models that are already pre-built.
For example Google Brain team has this model that's created the Facebook A.I. research created this
model for image processing and then resonate a very famous model by Microsoft.
Now we'll use the squeeze net because as you can see the size of the model is quite small compared to
the other ones.
That is the downside of these models.
Sometimes they can be heavy but the smaller the algorithm the faster the prediction time but the less
the accuracy.
So instead of using the resonant let's use squeezed net.
So I'm going to change this to squeeze net next is to set the model path.
So again we're using the OS to find the model that we want to use we actually have to download these
models if we want to use them.
So you can see here if I click on it I get a little download of the squeezed net.
So again the more accurate ones are we'll just have more bytes of data that you have to download.
So it's up to you.
I'm going to use the squeeze net though.
So now I get this file which I can move
into my project folder.
So let's go to desktop
go to a really smart brain and then plug it in here.
So again this is a binary file that we can just use as our model.
I'm just going to copy the file path or the name so that instead of the resonant we'll use the squeezed
net model.
And then finally we want to load the model and then make some predictions if we go back to the documentation
we can make the predictions by copying this piece of code we see that we have the predictions and the
probabilities.
That is how confident the model is in its prediction.
And we're simply saying Hey predict image let's make this a little bit smaller predict image and we're
gonna give it the image that we want to test in our case instead of one dodgy Peg.
We'll say giraffe.
So let's say giraffe dodge a peg and we'll keep result count at five and then finally we do a for loop.
So for each prediction we're going to zip the predictions and probabilities and just print out the output
that we want.
Let's actually see what this does.
I'm going to save this and run our brain dot pi.
I have to say Python 3 brain dot pi
so we get actually the answer here.
But I want to talk about the area that you might encounter.
So if you see over here I get some errors in my code.
And again this is something that depends on the machine that you're running this from.
You might have different issues but these are mostly warning based on my library versions that we've
installed again depending on when you're watching these videos some of these warnings may appear to
you based on again the tensor flow the open CV the image A.I. libraries that we use.
Or I might even get issues with my CPSU that doesn't support instructions that this binary which is
the H5 binary that we installed does not actually support but in the end we still get an answer right
here.
Let's make this a little bit bigger we get some looking good it looks like twenty eight percent it thinks
that this is a You've roughed gross I don't even know what that is.
Let's let's google image that I roughed GROSS Oh that's really funny.
Look at that.
So it thought that this is what the image was off and it was 28 percent confident it thought a what
might have been a prairie chicken.
That's 10 percent confidence a Cheeto a partridge.
All right.
So it didn't really get her right did it.
That that image does look a little confusing.
So unfortunately that model wasn't accurate enough.
But see here what the code is doing right.
The code when we loop says hey I want five results of your predictions and then I want you to grab the
predictions and the probabilities the confidence that you have in these predictions and because squeezed
net is not necessarily the most accurate.
It didn't figure out the giraffe image.
But what about Godzilla.
That's another tough one.
Let's do the Godzilla image.
If I save and run this again let's clear
again.
We're waiting we're waiting.
And there we go.
We have American alligator.
46 percent confidence.
Does it look like an alligator.
All right.
That's not too bad actually.
We also get the common iguana for 18 percent confidence.
All right.
Last one less to house.
If we do house here save and hit run
Hey look at that we get a boat house for 58 percent.
By the way I also just downloaded the resonant model which is supposed to be a little bit more accurate
is about 100 megabytes.
So that took a bit of time but I want to see if the accuracy improves.
So I just changed said bottle type as resonant and changed the path to now the new model that I have.
All right.
We don't need to open that.
So let's give that a go.
I'm going to run again.
You see here that it took a little bit longer than previously because it is a bigger model but it looks
like it thinks this is either a church or a boat house.
But it's pretty sure it's a church.
All right.
It kind of looks like a church.
What about the Godzilla image lost to Godzilla.
See what they think of that.
All right it's super confident that it's an American alligator.
All right.
Still not great but what about the giraffe.
Let's let's check out the giraffe fire on this Oh boy.
This is not that great either.
So as you can see it's hit or miss.
The idea is that this is never going to be perfect but ideally we create a model that is useful enough
to derive some sort of business outcomes or positive business outcomes.
Now this was just a little taste of what you can do with Python and machine learning the real power
comes when you combine pre-built models that big companies have already built for us to use them to
solve our day to day problems or our business problems.
And that's why python is so popular right.
It's the idea of the developer community.
There are so many libraries so many tools that are given by the community to everybody who uses python.
Python is popular because our possibilities are endless.
As you saw there so many career opportunities so many different projects they can do.
So I encourage you to explore this library explore other libraries and see how you can use python to
make your life easier.
I'll see in the next one by.